---
layout: "@/layouts/blogs.astro"
title: Why I Quit Social Media
---

# {frontmatter.title}

This'll be an interesting first blog as I've only ever written them when I took English, though I'd
rather not explain the same thing repeatedly only to get farther from the truth than I'd like for
brevity/readability - it gets annoying after a long while of having to do this when helping people
with their code (I will die on this hill).

### Who are you?

For those wondering who I think I am to write this, I'm a programmer/musician that's actively helped
in certain programming communities like Discord.py, Scripting Helpers, Hiddendevs and a little bit
in SpeakJS (all wonderful folk). I've helped in a range of problems from basic syntax errors to
assisting with system architecture, introductory dev-ops tasks and metathinking i.e "how do I learn
X?", "how do I avoid burnout?", "why do I feel slow compared to X who can do Y in Z time?", etc.

As a result, I've learned so much from active members and helpers present in such communities, some
I'm still in contact with because we get along very well aside from my pandering. Hopefully that
introduction doesn't come off as ego-stroking as I'm not the type - I had my "fun" as a teenager and
firmly believe social status should be an urban myth (without hyperbole, almost everyone is equal in my
eyes regardless of consequences).

### So what's the reason?

A bit of background first...

My mother, who acted as my voice of reason even into my 20s, had passed in February last year. Due
to my autism I was a temperamental person and would go out of my way to do things that would make
anyone upset/frustrated repeatedly, as if I couldn't see the bad in it. We had history both good and
bad, with her now out of my life it grows increasingly more difficult to remember the lessons she
both taught me in my upbringing and that she'd left behind for me - I'm not a material person so
this means everything to me, quite literally. I've resorted to notes to ingrain these lessons into
me, though acting them out is a different story.

Due to my "flavour" of autism, pattern recognition is weaker outside of my fixations. I'd wager
after she passed I'd probably grown tunnel vision and resumed this weird torture hell of antics that
I'd normally never entertain. Surrounding myself with toxicity, commonly unhelpful people, and
picking up on their mannerisms due to my mental disorders causes a lot of trouble for others and an
imbalance of personality for myself.

### Can I avoid taking a similar path?

For others in a similar path, I recommend balancing the time spent on social media and delegating it
to other tasks before taking my nuclear choice of dropping all social media into consideration. This
is something that was recommended to me by my brother and unfortunately has become something I am
not able to do regarding social media - either I take it to the extreme and remove it from my life,
or I get on every day as if I'm an addict, and I swore I'd never be. Hence, I am dropping all social
media and giving my number to those I want to keep in my life, despite there being a chance that
they might not get in contact at all.

### Conclusion

My life is much like a dirty waterwheel - I will only contaminate the water surrounding me and
other bodies of water for as long as I turn in this state. I must break away and cleanse myself from
"that which does not serve me." I have learned a lot from the people around me, now it is time I
learn from myself and what my body and mind needs rather than working off guesswork for the rest of
my life. I mean, I'm 23, I'm not old but I'm not young either, and I need to get my life together
with my own hands regardless of my parents' presence.

I appreciate those that read this far. If I've helped you before then I wish you good luck in your
endeavours, if I've been toxic towards you then I wish you good health as I now pursue such, and to
those that knew me - our paths will cross if it's meant to be. Good luck in your journey!

Peacies.
